# traffic-demand-prediction
used multi tricks to predict ride-sourcing demand

Abstract- With the development of the automated mobility technology and the shared economy, ride-sourcing services have been one of the first relevant application scenario using shared autonomous vehicles. Enhancing spatio-temporal ride-sourcing demand prediction performance is really important to efficiently dispatch shared autonomous vehicles, which can reduce vehicles idle time on streets. Indeed, empty vehicles could aggravate traffic congestion and air pollution. However, the existing researches focus on single-step prediction based on grids or hexagons, which not only limits the practical application value of the model, but also presents the problem of insufficient prediction ability. To fill this gap, we propose a novel ride-sourcing demand prediction framework using an Optimized Spatiotemporal Encoder-Decoder Neural Network (O-STEDN). For the encoder layer, a combination of Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) and a Read-first Long Short-Term Memory (RLSTM) network are used to better extract the spatio-temporal features simultaneously. For the decoder layer, a LSTM model and a dynamic spatio-temporal attention mechanism are applied to adaptively associate historical spatio-temporal features with the current prediction. Furthermore, a residual connection and a layer normalization tricks are added in both the encoder layer and the decoder layer to prevent the loss of feature information and internal covariate shift problems. The experiment results show that the proposed framework outperforms state-of-the-art models whether for single step demand prediction or multi-steps prediction, which could not only help transportation network companies to improve the ride-sourcing services, but also help policy makers to take traffic demand management measures dynamically.

key-words— ride-sourcing demand prediction; encoder-decoder model; graph convolutional network; read-first long short-term memory; dynamic spatio-temporal attention mechanism
